Document current release process (#165)
react-native-community/releases: README.md

Reviewer: I think we should keep this Intro part, and as first section after it a small "How to use the changelog generator" section like the one existing before.

It could be shaped somewhat closely to:

--

To use it first off `git clone` the repo, then `yarn` and finally you can use it like in the following example:

```bash
yarn generate -b v0.61.5 -c v0.62.0-rc.3 -r ../react-native -f ./CHANGELOG.md -t [GITHUB_TOKEN]
```

In particular:

- `-r` needs to be a local copy of the `react-native` repo, on master branch, up-to-date
- `-t` needs to be a Personal Access Token generated via GitHub token with `read` authorization for `public_repos`

--

Author: I think we should just leave the changelog part to the changelog doc, but perhaps we can find a good place in the next iteration to link to it directly from the README.

# React Native’s Release Process

At Facebook React Native is not consumed via released versions, instead they

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Reviewer 2: https://gist.github.com/TheSavior/608dfb8d5f80a0eef0f0b1681db5ec95

We definitely consume a 1:1 copy of master, we are just a couple minutes ahead.

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Reviewer: > We definitely consume a 1:1 copy of master

ah yeah, probably I choose a poor wording 🤦‍♂️
my understanding is more like 

react native codebase in FB = `master` in OSS + other stuff

which yeah, it's a 1:1.
Am I fully wrong?

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we consume it a bit differently. We use buck for example. 

I also would still reword:
```
react native codebase in FB = master in OSS + other stuff
```
to
```
Facebook's monorepo = master of react native repo + other stuff
```

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Author: Yeah I knew it was a simplification, but I figured there’s no real reason to further add details about that which isn’t really related to who to release RN. I’m fine with adding/rewording it if you think that eases understanding for readers?

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Reviewer 2: I'm happy with what you have in the original text

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Reviewer: Maybe let's keep the original text but add a link to the gist?
```suggestion
always consume the [latest version of the `master` branch](https://gist.github.com/TheSavior/608dfb8d5f80a0eef0f0b1681db5ec95). This means that they
```

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Author: My one issue with the gist, as-is, is that it also touches on the release side of things, which may become confusing. As a curious person, I like the insight into how FB does things, so perhaps that part could just be imported as another separate doc that is linked to here?

> always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they

Author: @kelset bump

are able to iterate fast for _their_ needs; if something is broken the fix is a
single commit away.

External users are of course similarly able to consume the latest `master`
version, however this is most likely a too fast moving target for most–aside
from turn around to get a fix in being longer.

To reconcile these two different use-cases, React Native’s release process is a
different one from the one many users are familiar with in the JavaScript
ecosystem.

## The process at a high-level

1. A new version branch is branched off of the `master` branch–hereafter

>    referred to as “the stable branch”.

Author: Yup, much better 👍

>    referred to as “the stable branch”.

Reviewer: ah btw - may be worth mentioning here that up to this point the branch has been cut "as close as possible" time wise to when .0 of the previous version in released - as I think it will make it easier to contextualise the proposal for the "new plan"?

>    referred to as “the stable branch”.

Author: I think I will mention this in the detailed overview as the last step where it states the process repeats.

> 1. A [release candidate][RC] is released from the stable branch, allowing users

Author: Agreed

   to try it out and provide feedback–hereafter referred to as “the RC”.
1. Additional changes that have landed in the `master` branch since the stable
   branch was originally created and are deemed required for the version to be
   finalized are [cherry-picked][cherry-picking] onto the stable branch. These
   can be bug-fixes for previously released versions, including the RC, or
   changes otherwise deemed an improvement for the version to be finalized, such
   as [UX]/[DX] improvements.
1. Steps 2 through 3 are repeated until consensus is reached that the version is

>    good enough to release as a stable version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   good enough to be released as a stable version.
```
nit (?) (not entirely sure)

Author: I think either is fine, but I like the cadence of your suggestion 👍

1. A stable version is released and communications are sent out to the community
   informing them of the availability of a new stable version and what changes

>    it includes.

Reviewer: Maybe in this step I'd be a bit more clear on a couple things:

```
 A stable version is released and communications are sent out to the community
   informing them of its availability - the changes it includes are fully listed in the CHANGELOG.md file. A release entry is created in the GitHub interface and, only for `.0`, a blogpost is published; both highlight the most relevant changes.
```

Author: I am definitely touching on those in the detailed doc–which I haven’t pushed yet but this would link there. Do you think that’s good enough? Trying to keep this short and sweet.

Reviewer: Yeah I guess it's fine either way - my main point for this comment was to clarify the "two lines" of communication: Changelog.md = in depth / blogpost, releases tab = highlights.

But yeah if you want to keep it short and sweet it's fine.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure how deep these steps should go but shouldn't the diff generation be mentioned here as well? together with checking that the diff looks _normal_ on upgrade-helper.

Reviewer: Not sure if it should be in this bullet point, since it seems we'll have a more in depth doc anyway - and we do a diff for each RC and each stable.

Author: It becomes a slippery slope quickly, as shown in this thread :) So for now I’ll leave details about the communications to the other doc, we can see afterwards if that’s good enough.

│                  │                       │                              │  │
                   │                 │  │  └──────────────────────────────┘
│                  │                                       │                 │
                   ▼                 │  │                  ▼
│  ┌──────────────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────────────┐  │
   │                              │  │  │  │                              │
│  │  yikes, fix feature A more   │───────▶│  yikes, fix feature A more   │  │
   │                              │  │  │  │                              │
│  └──────────────────────────────┘        └──────────────────────────────┘  │
                   │                 │  │                  │
│                  │                                       ▼                 │
                   │                 │  │  ┌──────────────────────────────┐
│                  │                       │                              │  │
                   │                 │  │  │         0.42.1-rc.0          │
│                  │                       │                              │  │

>                    │                 │  │  └──────────────────────────────┘

Reviewer: Probably we never discussed this, but AFAIK we don't do an RC phase for patch releases post `.0`.

Most likely my mistake in communicating with you the various steps 😅

Author: Aha! I may have just filled in the blanks myself 😬

Author: I think we should bring this back too somewhere, in the next iteration.

Stay up-to-date with the release activities of [React Native](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/) by [watching](https://github.com/react-native-community/releases/subscription) for [status reports](https://github.com/react-native-community/releases/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22release+status%22). Or you can follow along as the release notes are prepared and help reviewing the overall [changelog](https://github.com/react-native-community/releases/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## React Native’s Release Process

At Facebook React Native is not consumed via released versions, instead they always consume the latest version of the `master` branch. This means that they are able to iterate fast for _their_ needs; if something is broken the fix is a single commit away.

> External users are of course similarly able to consume the latest `master` version, however this is most likely a too fast moving target for most.

Author: Unsure about this one. To me this is the lead-up to “…, _however_”, if you know what I mean? I don’t feel like it implies that this is easy.

> External users are of course similarly able to consume the latest `master` version, however this is most likely a too fast moving target for most.

Reviewer: ok, it's probably different way of interpreting english - but I know but bad at it so it's ok.

> External users are of course similarly able to consume the latest `master` version, however this is most likely a too fast moving target for most.

Author: I mean, I’m by no means a native English speaker myself 😬

> External users are of course similarly able to consume the latest `master` version, however this is most likely a too fast moving target for most–aside from turn around to get a fix in being longer.

Author: It could be worded differently, but I think the part before it already captures it and so I’ll just remove it.
